[Music]
the kind of I was defending it the last
two seasons I thought six was really
good bad seven was terrible in hindsight
I was really defending it the whole way
through seven when people were
complaining about this exact issue which
is that it was getting away from the
books the book fan the fans of the books
were like oh this isn't what we write
left for I was like just wait just wait
until basically this episode yes last
week I was like wait until this happens
because I was the one who was like
holding out on the White Walkers I
thought the night king had a whole
[ __ ] backstory I know everything that
I thought was gonna happen didn't and it
was a [ __ ] it was like really really
dog [ __ ] it just goes to show you we
don't give a [ __ ] about these battles
you're wasting your money on these
battles I just care about the game
perhaps the most passionate mode of
critique possible is the criticism
presented by someone who sincerely
believes that they could influence the
outcome of future decisions made by the
writers and producers on the show and in
the past this delusion has not been
completely baseless David Benioff and
his team the so called showrunners
producers directors they have repeatedly
made last-minute decisions that very
fundamentally altered the plot of
episodes of the TV show after the script
was written after the film was on the
editor's floor they've gone back and
very suddenly with very little thought
changed things you know that's happened
at every stage of the show in some cases
you have actors kind of admitting like
whoa what we finally saw in that episode
was not what was in the script
in other cases you have actors kind of
admitting oh you know well we got
version one of the scripts and then at
the last minute we were handed this
other script and everything had changed
so it's not ridiculous for some critics
even here on YouTube to have the
delusion that they're gonna influence
the creative process at Game of Thrones
I lack this delusion so I'm instead
presenting this video from the
perspective of someone you know who
might be able to influence the audience
in terms of what you do in your own
lives as creative writers as creative
people maybe you write fiction
maybe write nonfiction maybe you make
youtube videos talking about politics
like myself what can we learn from the
bad writing in this latest episode of
Game of Thrones
well theatre I'd say in accordance with
Aristotle's approach to writing but
whatever theater is really about
demonstrating things to the audience yes
you could demonstrate through words
deeds actions even how a you know how a
shot is framed what you show what you
don't show on camera what you highlight
what you linger on um and the first half
of this episode what it wanted to
demonstrate was the simple but profound
realization Daenerys has that Jon Snow
is perceived by his people as a great
leader put another way she realizes that
people are eager to obey Jon Snow's
Authority and they are not eager to obey
her authority that although she may be
able to command obedience from people
grudgingly when they fear her or when
she offers them some kind of reward or
what her actions have a clear rationale
or when people are terrified they're all
going to be killed by an enemy army that
kind of obedience is very fundamentally
different from the obedience Jon Snow
elicits from people and this either
could be shown to us in terms of an
examination of what makes Jon Snow
extraordinary or an examination of his
followership so I mean the point being
you could talk about in terms of a study
of leadership or a study of fellowship
and she has this big realization and
that changes her direction in the first
half the episode and this episode
completely failed to demonstrate that
just very poorly written script very
poorly directed very poor filmmaking
poor at every stage of conception in
execution so this is the one big point
they'll just pause for a moment
imagine the creative challenge of
writing about the career of Mao Zedong
the dictator of China you could have
several different points in the career
of Mao Zedong where people of a similar
realization let's say it's around 1966
the start of the era of the Cultural
Revolution a lot of people have already
lost faith in Mao Zedong especially
people who are old enough to remember
what life was like before 1949 a lot of
people just think Mao Zedong's been
discredited in his political career is
over
in this period 1966 and then they stop
and realize like daenerys targaryen here
looking at Jon Snow they realized whoa
this guy has a type of followership
among the young people among teenagers
among young people who can't remember
1949 who can't think might not really
remember 1959 their knowledge of
politics is really shallow and really
based on propaganda and these young
people they're willing to commit
atrocities at the snap of a finger in
response to what this guy says this guy
has a kind of power of over this
followership that could be used for good
and evil and it's something we didn't
recognize because we the older
generation the bureaucratic class were
consumed with other political struggles
and objectives in the last ten years
including recovering from the Great Leap
Forward that would be a really
interesting story tale how are you gonna
show that on screen how are you gonna
show that well you would not approach it
the way these filmmakers approach this
scene with daenerys targaryen they've
made so many mistakes here they've
really thrown away the type of world
building that they built up in the first
three or four seasons um
this scene is a bunch of drunks looking
like hobos sitting around in a bar and
some of them fall in love with each
other and go away and say with each
other and some of them make jokes with
each other you know this scene is more
like an episode of Friends from the
1990s that the first half here set in
this bar it utterly lacks
sense of hierarchy and inequality in a
feudal society that I feel was carefully
elicited carefully presented and
achieved back when we were looking at
the court of King Joffrey you know in
seasons 1 through 3 even when you had
scenes the smaller number of people in
the room the council sitting around with
thee the hand of the king you know back
when Ned Stark was alive or what had
back when Tyrion was ruling in King's
Landing the sense of their being complex
competing interests who really want to
decide who is going to be the new Lord
of storms end who is going to be the new
Lord of house umber who is going to own
what land who is going to receive what
honors and what dignity at the end of
that battle who is going to arrange
which marriage and you know the
political complexity and dynamism it is
partly just demonstrated through voices
from the crowd voice from the crowd
interrupting laughing guffawing showing
their skepticism and if you go back and
rewatch this scene don't but if you
watch the first half this episode the
directors have presented this all the
background areas there were a lot there
are a lot of people in the room and
these people in the background they're
standing in silence as if they're
professional modern dancers at a dance
rehearsal you know you'd be amazed if
you haven't been in the theater when you
have people who are professionals and
dance they know how to stand in silence
and they stand without fidgeting and
that's what all the peasants are doing
not just residents peasants nights
warriors
that's what they're all doing in this
scene and that's why the whole scene has
this weird you know unrealistic sense of
being a bunch of actors on a soundstage
staring into each other's eyes and I I
do not think that the world that was
constructed the world we felt and we
appreciate it related to back with
Joffrey Baratheon back with Joffrey
Baratheon him in season one so look if
you wanted to write a story of of people
recognizing you know as Daenerys is here
supposed to recognize Daenerys is you're
supposed to recognize whoa Jon Snow has
power
for good and ill either because
something extraordinary about him or
about the way he's regarded or something
about the culture how these people
relate to him
whoa and he could use that power for
good or evil and she can't control and
he could destroy her personally it could
end her here it could end her political
career wow that's a really interesting
storyline to achieve it's something
interesting to demonstrate they utterly
utterly failed to do it what if you were
trying to show this in China with Mao
Zedong in 1966 would you show it by
having a bunch of drunks hanging out in
a bar and relating to each other so
informally no fear and no hope for
promotion or something no jockeying no
lobbying for you know feudal privileges
you know when you have Sandor Clegane
sitting down with Sansa Stark and
relating to her in such an informal way
speaking to her you know so indecently
so grotesquely this is much worse than
an episode of a TV show like friends no
no it's a really bad writing um I don't
think you could achieve the sense of
dread and the political significance by
having Mao Zedong sitting around in a
bar with a bunch of drunks and having
having military veterans come up to Mao
Zedong the way a bunch of warriors come
up to Jon Snow and just pat him on the
back you know we have this really badly
written dialog where they just pat him
on the back and they say Tim oh wow we
saw you on that dragon we saw you
fighting in the bath like this is this
how you're gonna demonstrate it soon as
a writer as a creative person I think
that's a little bit worth reflecting on
because that was the really interesting
theme that you know as writers or actors
you're supposed to look at tactics how
are you gonna demonstrate that how are
you gonna show this to the audience now
the second half this episode is much
better written than the first half I
think it's better written than anything
we've seen in 2019 from this TV show
however that only makes it as
well-written as mediocre television
unlike terrible television and the
second half of this episode I think
remains
impaired or hobble
weakened by the lack of a sense of a
structured complex feudal society this
is no longer like the court of Joffrey
Baratheon and you know in the books when
Joffrey dies even though his mother is
supposed to be in mourning
everyone's approaching his mother and
saying hey you know I hear there's an
empty seat available on the council oh
hey you know we what we have to arrange
who is going to be the new head of the
navy the master of ships who's going to
be the new head of the economy the
master of currency who's gonna take what
seat oh you know well we heard this
castle is now vacant you know ruling
families been wiped out or they were on
the wrong side of the war and he to your
place Oh who's gonna arrange to move the
border between these two counties to
change which feudal Manor controls what
land all that's going on all of that is
brought to Cersei Lannister right after
the the funeral or what-have-you
I'm right after her new son her new or
much younger son gets remarried and so
on and becomes the new king you know
this sense of hierarchy and protocol and
of course poly tests and politeness and
fear hope and hope hope for a better
world hope for a better future you have
to have that to enrich and provide
context for the type of drama that then
unfolds in the second half of this
episode which is lacking so I mean all
political ideas have to be expressed
through contrast and you know very
briefly my interest in the TV show my
interest in the books is ultimately
about political questions that the
author george RR martin raises and the
books do set out many important
contrasts between slavery and serfdom
economic freedom and feudalism
and various types of democracy democracy
as the theme comes up in the book and it
is not presented in an idealized way
it's presented along with the sense of
its corruption and you know democracy
existing in the same city along with
slavery
they're real social problems you know
and the type of internecine instability
that democracy brings to a city that's
all set up for you in the books Daenerys
Targaryen making an argument that she
represents something fundamentally
different from and said fundamentally
better than Cersei Lannister here in the
TV show it's laughable I mean I actually
laughed out loud and I paused the video
I was watching with my girlfriend didn't
want to ruin it for her but I thought I
was laughing I was like this is
ridiculous in the words they're having
coming out of Daenerys his mouth what
does she think she represents she
doesn't represent helping the poor she
doesn't hear in Wessel she doesn't
represent ending slavery she doesn't
represent any ideal any ideal I should
say clearly of making the world a better
place
the only ideal Daenerys represents in
the TV show as it has been bungled and
presented or misrepresented is the idea
that somebody from her bloodline ought
to rule simply because they are the
descendants of the people who ruled in
the past
whereas anyone else with any other
bloodline is a usurper is illegitimate
now again if you went all the way with
that idea I mean as crazy as it is in
medieval times a lot of people believe
that not all read historical primary
source documents you can see it was
quite common for people to not believe
in that concept but you know the idea of
the Divine Right of Kings passing
through the firstborn you know it's it
becomes real hard to believe especially
when the firstborn son is obviously
physically or mentally [ __ ] which
happened in many royal families has
obvious health problems or is mentally
impaired and oh you know he might have a
cousin you know we might have someone
else in the royal family who's proven to
be a brilliant military commander and
wouldn't it be better to have him as the
king or whatever this happened
history of England Spain France Germany
everywhere whatever you can look at any
of these societies that had this ideal
of primogeniture of the oldest born son
and then there were practical
circumstances to call into question you
could have committed to presenting to
someone who really sincerely believes
that blood right alone that her
bloodline that the principle of heredity
is the reason why she should be the
queen and not Cersei Lannister where
she's in a sense of fanatical true
believer in this and therefore for her
even if for nobody else even if not for
varies or anyone else in the plot that
for her it's a crushing realization that
Jon Snow has the better bloodline but
that has not been set up that's not what
we resent with well we were presented
with back in seasons one through four
was the idea that Daenerys was kind and
loving and freed the slaves and cared
about the poor and cared about making
society a better place and therefore
because of her soft-hearted character or
at least her liking for the slaves in
the lower classes therefore she was a
better ruler and then that has been
bungled and forgotten now for whatever
five years or more we haven't seen
anything like that from Daenerys um if
anything you know with the voice of the
poor in King's Landing has been
represented as a group of religious
fanatics and before that you had
Joffrey's widowed I'm forgetting her
name now who remarries Joffrey's younger
brother and she kind of represented a
little bit more of a pro-poor approach
to aristocratic politics
you could have questions here of
feudalism as such royalty as such in
contrast to either a democratic ideal or
a populist ideal you know who is is best
fit rule but what we've been presented
with in this episode is a series of
bungled introspections on political
power we could have had something really
meaningful at several junctures here
ending with the meditation which is
actually put in the the mouth of
bron-bron the professional assassin
Bronn the mercenary Bronn states the
philosophical political thesis of this
episode bran simply states that every
political order is created by some kind
of murderous madman in this case a
madwoman someone so violent so
so extreme that they create a new order
create a new feudal household or create
a new dynasty
so that's politically that's the soul of
this episode that's where it comes from
that's where it concludes and we're only
left to take sides and cheer for either
Daenerys Targaryen or Cersei Lannister
on the basis of who would be more brutal
who would be more effective or who would
be more efficient in creating a social
order a type of hierarchy that we all
know is vicious and evil and
counterproductive and wrong what is the
point of George RR Martin's literary
masterpiece even if it's a flawed
masterpiece of earlier videos talking
about you know shortcomings in the books
there are it's deeply flawed it's a
flawed masterpiece um it is not
conceivable that George RR Martin's
point is that Daenerys Targaryen should
be the leader of the Western world
because of who her parents were it's not
conceivable that his thesis is that Jon
Snow should be the leader of the Western
world because of who his parents are
there were a lot of interesting
questions in the books though vows and
honor and obedience and social order and
democracy and participation and the
ability to complain and shape what
happens in your society there are
interesting questions about feminism and
so on - and the role of women in society
um but the conclusion this TV show has
come - even if it is just through the
creative exhaustion of the team
producing it it's something that is in a
subtle way
utterly incompatible with both the
spirit and the text of the books that
preceded from let me ask you guys this
in closing
why why isn't Kevin Lannister in this TV
show if you were to ask me what
character do I most relate to or what
what's the emblem of why I appreciate
the books and what I do I would say
Kevin Lannister in the books Kevan
Lannister is someone who had to live his
whole life as a background character in
silence he's someone who had to live as
a combination of warrior scholar and
bureaucrat in the feudal system and
after so many years he finally has the
chance to make the world a better place
partly through influencing Cersei and
then after Circe's walk of shame in the
books he basically replaces Cersei
bracelet briefly he's in command so this
guy's lived his life in the background
living on that edge of you know honor
duty and death I mean at one point the
negotiations with Cersei he says to her
simply look I know you're gonna try to
kill me and he said you know I have won
Castle I think he says you have I have
200 knights and they're loyal to me I
feed them well you know if you if you
come to kill me
you know you'll win eventually but in
Mike I'll hold it a long time against
your army will really fight to the
bitter end to me that's a very moving
scene Kevan Lannister is not a fantasy
character I think many people would say
he is a dull bureaucrat in in as much as
the aristocratic feudal world had dull
bureaucrats his life has been devoted to
breeding horses and you know putting
grain into silos on behalf of the
peasants and engaging in the economic
political and military life of this
society and he has almost never had a
chance to speak up or do anything
decisive to make the world a better
place but then he gets his chance he
steps forward in bizarre political
circumstances he's thrust into a
position of power when Cersei Lannister
falls from power and he takes that
chance to make the world a better place
and he is killed he is assassinated
immediately not despite the fact that he
wants to make the
a better place but because of that fact
to me the storyline of Kevan Lannister
is a great example of the meaningfulness
of these books of why they are great art
great literature and contain political
reflections who are worth reflecting on
that are worth teaching in university
classrooms and the total omission of
Kevan Lannister from the TV show and the
the failure to conjure up that sense of
a complex feudal society with
contrasting priorities pressure pressure
from some people who just want land
pressure from some people who just want
a better marriage for their son or their
daughter but also pressure from people
like Kevan Lannister who really do want
to make the world a better place
pressure from people who have gone to
study in Essos and have been to these
cities where they have elections you
know what I will move into cities that
abolished slavery like Braavos and who
have been to the cities that are still
built on slavery and you know the
difference that makes the meditations on
what kind of society they ought to have
and who ultimately is willing to pay the
price in blood
people like Kevan Lannister who lose
lose their lives trying to step forward
that to me is a story worth telling and
it's a goddamn shame that in the
adaptation from book to show all of that
has been lost including and emblem
enticed by storyline of Kevan Lannister
[Music]